---
layout: post
title:  "The Perimeter is dead. Long live the perimeter."
date:   2018-12-02 16:16:01 -0600
categories: essay kolide fleet aws amazonwebservices amazon osquery perimeter webservices security startups
---
There is [no](https://www.securityroundtable.org/security-without-boundaries-perimeter-dead/) [lack](https://threatpost.com/perimeter-defenses-are-dead-so-now-what/137754/) [of](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2014/06/06/death_of_network_parimeter/) [articles](https://www.secureworldexpo.com/resources/cybersecurity-perimeter-defense-is-it-dead) declaring the death of the "perimeter." That is, in the modern environment, if one's risk model assumes an unsafe exterier environment and a safe interior network protected by VPNs, firewalls, etc. then something is wrong with your security architecture. The argument has strengths: more and more workers are remote; more employees are connecting to, and regularly using internal software and systems; zero trust requires robust monitoring and maintenance which can improve security more than adding a "secure" firewall. All of these things are true, but I think painting the picture with such broad strokes is a mistake.

I've spent most of my time in the startup space. This is a world (unfortunately) embodied by the famous phrase "move fast and break things". Time to market and rapid pivotability are key business requirements. This means startups often leave security as an afterthought, and not completely wrongly. Security is a non-trivial time and cost trade off, and short term survival is more important than protecting companies' resources from a potential breach. Furthermore, startups are so small that they're not usually a top target for hackers. The potential payoffs are so small that they'll look elsewhere. That being said, these risks are most definitely non-zero, and ignoring them is a careless mistake. This is where I think declaring the death of the perimeter as broadly as several outlets are doing is a mistake.

First, zero trust/perimeterless security is great, but it is an even larger time and money sink than petimeter-based security. Google has large, dedicated internal teams and systems built specifically to support their [BeyondCorp](https://cloud.google.com/beyondcorp/) model. Second, declaring something "dead" implies that it's no longer useful; however, if one doesn't have _any_ security, they're in big trouble. While perimeter-based security may not be perfect, it's much better than nothing. Finally, startups have something that moots many of the arguments for perimeterless security: they're tiny. It's very possible to have only ports 80 and 443 open to the internet, with an internal network or segmented VPN for accessing internal resources with limited access and IP whitelists. Due to lower volumes, its also much easier to log and review everything.

Don't get me wrong: I'm pro-perimeterless (in theory). I think it's an awesome idea, and would encourage any organizations that have robust and dedicated security teams that can follow it to do so. It should just be made clear that a more traditional security model should not be ignored just because it's unsexy, or will be migrated away in the future. The number of internet-exposed admin interfaces is just too damn high to think otherwise.
